.TH CHECKNOTES 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
checknotes \- check for new and updated notes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B checknotes
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fINOTESFILE\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B checknotes
checks various notesfiles to see if they've been updated since the last time
you read through them.

More specifically,
.B checknotes
compares a notesfile's modification time to the time stored in the sequencer
for that notesfile.  If the notesfile's modification time is more recent, the
notesfile is marked as having new material to read.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-alternate\fR=\fINAME\fR
Use a named subsequencer.  Each subsequencer has its own independent set of
timestamps, and each can be used independently to sequence through the same
notesfiles.

This option was originally used for shared accounts, so multiple users could
track their sequencers individually.  Since most sites have moved away from
using shared accounts, this option is rarely used.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\^\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Read a list of notesfiles to check from the specified file, instead of
expecting such a list to be provided on the command line.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B checknotes
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\^\-quiet\fR, \fB\-\^\-silent\fR
Do not output any messages, regardless of whether there are notesfiles with new
or updated material.  This is primarily useful in a shell script, where the
error code (0 if there are new notes, nonzero if there are no new notes or an
error occured) can be used effectively.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\^\-verbose\fR
Print a message for each notesfile with new or updated notes.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B checknotes
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1), \fBnfadmin\fR(1),
\fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1), \fBnfpipe\fR(1),
\fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
