@node Correcting mistakes
@chapter Correcting mistakes
@cindex correcting mistakes

Sometimes after composing a note you might realize that you made a
mistake; there may have been a typo in the text of your note, you may
have thought of a better title for your basenote, or you may
reconsider posting the note entirely.  This chapter explains the
various commands you can use to correct these mistakes by editing or
deleting your note, and the restrictions on these commands.

@menu
* Editing note titles::   Changing the title of a basenote.
* Editing note text::     Correcting mistakes in the text of a note.
* Deleting notes::        Removing a note entirely.
@end menu

@node Editing note titles
@section Editing note titles
@cindex editing note titles

A basenote's title may be edited at any time by its author.  To do so,
open the basenote and press the @kbd{e} key; you will be prompted for
a new title for the note.  If you change your mind and decide you
simply want to keep the existing title, press @key{RET} without
entering a new title, and no change will be made.

If you are on one of a note's responses, you will be unable to edit
the title of the basenote; this is because future modules may include
the ability for responses to have titles different from that of the
basenote.

Also, be careful with the title you enter for an anonymous note; since
the note will not be able to be identified as yours, you will not be
allowed to change it after it is entered.

@node Editing note text
@section Editing note text
@cindex editing note text

The text of a note or response can also be edited, but there are
certain restrictions.  First, of course, you can only edit the text of
your own note or response.

Second, you can only edit a particular note or response if there are
no more recent responses in the current thread.  This restriction is
intended to prevent an author from altering the context of a thread
after new responses have been posted.  Editing is intended to be used
to correct typos immediately, not to remove existing comments.

To edit a post, use the @kbd{E} key.  This will bring up an editor
containing the existing text of your note.  After editing the note to
your satisfaction, save and exit the editor.  If you are a director in
the notesfile, you will be asked whether to add a director message to
the note, and the text will be modified.

@node Deleting notes
@section Deleting notes
@cindex deleting notes

Instead of editing the text of a note, you may sometimes change your
mind and decide you'd rather delete the note entirely.  This follows
the same requirements as editing the text of a note; namely, it must
be your note and there must be no responses more recent than the note
in question.

To delete a note, use the @kbd{D} key.  If the note does not fulfill
the above criteria, you will be told why the note cannot be deleted;
otherwise, you will be prompted to confirm the note's deletion.
