.TH MKNF 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
mknf \- create new notesfiles

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mknf
[\fIoptions\fR] \fINOTESFILE\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mknf
creates one or more new notesfiles.

If you are a normal user,
.B mknf
will only allow you to create personal notesfiles; that is, notesfiles with
names preceded by \fIusername:\fR.  The notes administrator can create general
notesfiles as well as personal notesfiles with any prefix.

In the future,
.Bmknf
will have options allowing creation of multiple different types of notesfile
according available backends; for now, the only available type is the
UIUC-format notesfile.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-anonymous\fR
Set the newly created notesfile to allow anonymous notes.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B notes
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\^\-locked\fR
Create the new notesfile in a locked state.  Locked notesfiles can only be
entered by directors.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\^\-unlocked\fR
Create the new notesfile in an unlocked state.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\^\-verbose\fR
Print a message for each notesfile created.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B mknf
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBnfadmin\fR(1),
\fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1), \fBnfpipe\fR(1),
\fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
