\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename newts.info
@include version.texi
@settitle Newts Reference Manual
@paragraphindent 2
@c %**end of header

@dircategory Newts notesfile system
@direntry
* Newts: (newts).
* Notes: (newts)Invoking Notes.
* checknotes: (newts)Invoking checknotes.
* getnote: (newts)Invoking getnote.
* mknf: (newts)Invoking mknf.
* nfadmin: (newts)Invoking nfadmin.
* nfdump: (newts)Invoking nfdump.
* nfload: (newts)Invoking nfload.
* nfpipe: (newts)Invoking nfpipe.
* nfprint: (newts)Invoking nfprint.
* nfstats: (newts)Invoking nfstats.
* nftimestamp: (newts)Invoking nftimestamp.
* rmnf: (newts)Invoking rmnf.
@end direntry

@copying
This manual is for Newts @value{VERSION} by Tyler Berry.

Copyright @copyright{} 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 Tyler Berry.

@quotation
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that
the sections that reprint ``The GNU General Public License,'' ``The
GNU Library General Public License,'' and other clearly marked
sections held under separate copyright are reproduced under the
conditions given within them, and provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice
identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language under the conditions for modified
versions.  ``The GNU General Public License'' and ``The GNU Library
General Public License'' may be included in a translation approved by
the Free Software Foundation instead of in the original English.

At your option, you may distribute verbatim and modified versions of
this document, excepting the clearly marked sections held under
separate copyright, under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title Newts Reference Manual
@author Tyler Berry
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the contents of the file at the beginning
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Newts Reference Manual

This manual is for Newts @value{VERSION} by Tyler Berry.

Copyright @copyright{} 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 Tyler Berry.

@quotation
Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that
the sections that reprint ``The GNU General Public License,'' ``The
GNU Library General Public License,'' and other clearly marked
sections held under separate copyright are reproduced under the
conditions given within them, and provided that the entire resulting
derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission notice
identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language under the conditions for modified
versions.  ``The GNU General Public License'' and ``The GNU Library
General Public License'' may be included in a translation approved by
the Free Software Foundation instead of in the original English.

At your option, you may distribute verbatim and modified versions of
this document, excepting the clearly marked sections held under
separate copyright, under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the
License, or (at your option) any later version.
@end quotation

@menu
The Newts Notesfile System

* Introduction::           An introduction to Newts and notesfiles.
* History::                A brief history of notesfiles.
* Entering and exiting::   How to start and stop the Notes program.
* Reading::                Maneuvering around and viewing notes.
* Writing::                Adding new notes and responses.
* Correcting mistakes::    What to do if you make a mistake.
* Notes sequencer::        Using the sequencer to read only new notes.
* Utilities::              Auxilliary command-line utilities.

Program information

* Bugs::                   Current known bugs and issues with Newts.

GNU date format reference

* Date input formats::     Syntax for date and time options.

Appendices

* Getline::                The `getline' input-editing library.
* Licenses::               Texts for licenses used in Newts.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction to Newts
@cindex introduction

This software package, called @i{Newts} for ``New Notes'', is the only
currently available notesfile system which maintains compatibility
with Ray Essick and Rob Kolstad's Notesfile software.  Currently,
almost all major features of Notesfiles are supported, and Notesfiles
and Newts can operate on the same files without difficulty if properly
configured.  (This setup is not recommended for actual use.)

Newts improves upon Notesfiles in several ways.  First, and most
visible to the user, the ``compatibility client'' has received a
face-lift.  With the addition of support for the Curses display
library, various display bugs (which could cause hanging text to
remain on the screen while scrolling through pages of text) have been
fixed.  Support for line editing has been added to the various text
prompts throughout the system.  Additionally, the user interface has
been cleaned up and standardized (although a command-line option
supports the old style of interface for nostalgic users).

The current release of Newts is client-only; future releases will
delineate into server and client, include additional backends, and
eventually provide different client interfaces.

@node History
@chapter A brief history of notesfiles
@cindex history of notesfile systems
@cindex notesfiles, history of

The first incarnation of the concept of notesfiles seems to have been
a component of the PLATO system, which was developed by Don Bitzer,
founder of @acronym{CERL}, the Computer-based Education Research
Laboratory at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

PLATO Notes began as a replacement for a simple text file used to
report bugs in the PLATO system.  David Woolley, at the time a
17-year-old university student and junior system programmer, was
assigned to write a replacement system to correct multiple flaws with
the text file system of bug reporting --- including a single-user
access limit and an absence of security.

Woolley began with a program to automatically store a given bug report
in a secure file along with the date it was received and the ID of the
user who reported the bug.  The first version of the program allowed a
single response to a given bug, displayed beneath the bug report.
Noting that some bugs might require extended conversation between
users and the system administrators, Woolley extended the program to
allow up to 63 responses in a star-structured format --- a single
thread of responses, as opposed the tree-structured format now common
in Usenet and elsewhere.

The first prototype had only a single file to store bug reports in.
Other members of the system staff observed that additional forums,
such as ``System Announcements'' and ``Help'', might be useful, and
Woolley expanded the program to allow multiple separate files.

The first release was on August 7, 1973.  The software was called
``notes'' because that had been the name of the original text file
used for bug reports.

Over the next several years, PLATO Notes received multiple
enhancements and new features.  ``Group Notes'', released in January of
1976, included varying access permissions for individuals or groups of
users, deletion of notes, director messages, anonymity --- and most
importantly, an arbitrary number of notesfiles.  In 1978, PLATO Notes
user John Matheny implemented the @dfn{sequencer}, which allowed a
user to read only notes and responses posted since the last time that
user accessed notes.

PLATO continued to be used into the 1980s as a worldwide system.  As
time progressed, the rise of the PC provided a more cost-effective
solution for educational technology; the PLATO system and its
dedicated hardware declined.

In the early 1980s --- the first date referenced in the source code is
``Fall 1980'' --- Raymond Essick and Rob Kolstad, then two graduate
students at the University of Illinois, began developing a UNIX clone
of the PLATO Notes system.  Dubbed ``Notesfiles'', this implementation
included most of the identifying features of PLATO Notes, from access
lists and director messages to the sequencer.  The first official
release of Notesfiles was at the 1982 USENIX conference.

Notesfiles underwent multiple revisions throughout its lifetime.
Various additional features, including automatic expiration of old
notes, an interface with the Usenet news system, searching, and a
complex (and arcane) archival system, were added.

The last official release of Notesfiles was version 1.7 in 1985.  In
1987, Rich $alz --- later the author of the Usenet server software
@uref{http://www.isc.org/products/INN/, INN} --- released a patch
adding moderated notesfiles and automated signatures; the patch was
subsequently revised by Paul Pomes of the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.  Following $alz's and Pomes' patches, there have
been no further public releases of the Notesfiles software.  In 1995,
the news.software.notes Usenet newsgroup shut down.

Notesfiles's small but dedicated user community continued enhancing
its functionality using the means available to them.  For example, a
program called ``notewrap'' implemented in Tcl/Expect by Paul Hebble
added blacklists (also called killfiles) to the Notesfiles system.

At its peak, Notesfiles was used quite extensively on a very large
installation base.  If you scan through old archives of Usenet, you are
quite likely to find many articles whose ``Posting version'' is one of
several releases of Notesfiles.

Apart from Newts, there have been several attempts at writing a new
version of Notesfiles.  Most of these attempts have originated from
various students or alumni of @uref{http://www.imsa.edu, the Illinois
Math and Science Academy}, which is one notable institution which uses
a slightly modified variant of Notesfiles to this day.  These attempts
have included @i{Notes} by Jonathan Rockway, @i{Banter} by Jonathan
Perkins, and @i{@acronym{ZINN}} (@acronym{ZINN} Is Not Notes) by
Justin Doran and Jakob Beachem --- all current or past students of
@acronym{IMSA}.

All three of these attempts shared various features.  First, they all
changed the basic model of Notesfiles from a trusted client system to
a client/server architecture.  Each used the MySQL database as a
backend to store all of the data associated with notes and their
responses.  (Rockway's Notes intended to provide a modular backend
eventually.)  Each maintained the star-structure of PLATO Notes.
Banter and @acronym{ZINN} both implemented their server in C++, while
Rockway's Notes used C.  (Both the original Notesfiles software by
Essick and Kolstad and Newts are also implemented in C.)

According to myth recounted by various alumni of @acronym{IMSA}, every
attempt to reimplement Notesfiles is cursed to never be successfully
completed.  All other previously available Notes reimplementations are
now unavailable --- only Newts has reached a usable state.

References:

@itemize @bullet
@item Woolley, David R.@: (1994)
@uref{http://www.thinkofit.com/plato/dwplato.htm, @cite{PLATO: The
Emergence of Online Community}}

@item Essick, Raymond B.@: and Rob Kolstad (1985)
@uref{ftp://ftp.thoughtlocker.net/uiuc-notesfiles/notesfile-reference-manual.pdf,
@cite{Notesfile Reference Manual (Revised)}}

@item $alz, Rich and Pomes, Paul (1987)
@uref{ftp://ftp.uu.net/usenet/comp.sources.unix/volume10/notes-mod.pch.Z,
moderation patch for Notesfiles}

@item --- (1987)
@uref{ftp://ftp.thoughtlocker.net/uiuc-notesfiles/uiuc-notesfiles-1.7p.tar.gz,
Notesfiles 1.7 with moderation patch}
@end itemize

@include entering.texi
@include reading.texi
@include writing.texi
@include mistakes.texi
@include sequencer.texi
@include utilities.texi

@node Bugs
@chapter Bugs
@cindex bugs in Newts

Please refer to the BUGS file in the Newts source distribution to read
about any outstanding bugs in the system.

@include parse-datetime.texi
@include getline.texi

@node Licenses
@appendix Licenses
@cindex licenses

The following licenses are used by Newts or a component thereof.

@menu
* GNU GPL::    The GNU General Public License.
* GNU LGPL::   The GNU Lesser General Public License.
@end menu

@include gpl.texi
@include lgpl.texi

@bye
