.TH NFADMIN 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
nfadmin - change notesfiles' director options

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfadmin
[\fIoptions\fR] \fINOTESFILE\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nfadmin
displays and alters director settings for notesfiles in which you have director
permissions.

The command-line options for `nfadmin' are non-standard; they do not strictly
follow normal GNU usage.

.SH FLAG OPTIONS

Flag options set or clear boolean flags, such as "moderated", for notesfiles.
The short option version of flag options uses either a \fB+\fR or a \fB-\fR
appended to the end of the option (for example, \fB-a+\fR or \fB-M-\fR) to
activate or deactive the flag.  Alternately, flag options can be set using
standard long options; in this case, supply an argument of "yes", "no", "on",
or "off".

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-anonymous\fR=\fIFLAG\fR
Turn on or off anonymous posting in the specified notesfiles.

.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\^\-archive\fR=\fIFLAG\fR
Turn on or off archive status for the specified notesfiles.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\^\-locked\fR=\fIFLAG\fR
Lock or unlock the specified notesfiles; only directors are permitted to enter a
locked notesfile.

.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\^\-moderated\fR=\fIFLAG\fR
Turn on or off moderation for the specifed notesfiles.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\^\-open\fR=\fIFLAG\fR
"Open" or "close" the specified notesfiles; this is the same as unlocking and
locking, respectively.

.SH VALUE OPTIONS

Value options allow you to specify particular values for various
notesfile settings.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\^\-expire-dirmsg\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Change the "expire by director message" value for the specified notesfiles.
This options controls how notes in the notesfile should be affected by their
director messages during archiving.  Valid values are "on", "off", "any",
"ignore", and "default".

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\^\-expire-time\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Set the number of days before notes are archived in the specified notesfiles.
Valid values are "never", "default", and positive integers; 0 is considered the
same as "default".

.TP
\fB\-E\fR, \fB\-\^\-expire-action\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Change the action to be performed on expired notes in the specified notesfiles.
Valid values are "archive", "delete", and "default".

.TP
\fB\-L\fR, \fB\-\^\-max-note-size\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Change the maximum size for individual notes in the specified notesfiles.  A
value can be entered as a simple number, which will be interpreted as a number
of bytes, or in the form "23k", which will be interpreted as a number of
kilobytes.  The absolute maximum is 2929k.

.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\^\-minimum-notes\fR=\fIVALUE\fR
Change the number of notes which will be left in the notesfile at minimum after
archiving.  Valid values are "default" and positive integers.

.SH OTHER OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B nfadmin
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B nfadmin
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1), \fBnfpipe\fR(1),
\fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
