.TH NFLOAD 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
nfload \- load a saved image of a notesfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfload
[\fIoptions\fR] \fIFILE\fR \fINOTESFILE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nfload
reads in a saved image from \fBnfdump\fR(1) and restores that image, into either an
existing or a new notesfile.

.B nfload
will also correctly load dumpfiles created by the version of \fBnfdump\fR(1)
included in UIUC Notesfiles.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-force\-access\fR
Do not prompt for confirmation before adding or updating access entries.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\^\-force\fR
Do not prompt for confirmation before making changes to the notesfile.  This
option implies \fB\-\^\-force\-access\fR.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B nfload
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\^\-replace\-access\fR
Delete all existing access entries from the notesfile prior to adding the
access entries specified in the saved image.  This option implies
\fB\-\^\-force\-access\fR.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\^\-skip\-access\fR
Do not make any changes to the notesfile's access entries; if the notesfile is
created by running \fBnfload\fR, it will be left with the default set of access
entries.  Neither \fB\-\^\-force\-access\fR nor \fB\-\^\-replace\-access\fR
will have any effect if this option is specified.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\^\-verbose\fR
Print confirmation messages for each successfully processed portion of a
notesfile image.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error, including state information from
the parser and other details.  This is most likely more information that you
need, but it might be interesting and it will certainly help if you need to
debug a broken file.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B nfload
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfadmin\fR(1), \fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1), \fBnfpipe\fR(1),
\fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
