.TH NFMAIL 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
nfmail \- insert an e-mail into a notesfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfmail
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIFILE\fR] \fINOTESFILE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nfmail
takes a saved e-mail message from standard input (or from a specified file) and
use it as the text for a newly created note in the specified notesfile.  The
headers of the note are parsed to try to determine a subject for the newly
created note.

.B nfmail
behaves differently than the version distributed with Essick and Kolstad's
Notesfiles.  That implementation of
.Bnfmail
would attempt to parse the e-mail message for "From " or "From: " headers, and
try to use that header to determine an author for the newly created note.

Newts considers this a potential problem; it would be possible to forge a file
which would be indistinguishable from an e-mail message, and use that forged
file to create a note which would appear to have been written by another user.
To avoid this problem entirely, a note created by this implementation of
.B nfmail
will always be created with the user executing
.B nfmail
as its author.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-anonymous\fR
If the notesfile allows anonymous notes, make the new note anonymous.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\^\-director\-msg\fR[=\fIMESSAGE\fR]
Set the new note's director message.  If the notesfile uses a backend which
allows per-note director messages as opposed to per-notesfile director
messages, you may provide the message you would like to be displayed for this
note.  (If the notesfile does not support this feature, the director message
flag will still be set, but the notesfile's director message will be used.)

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B nfmail
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\^\-strip\-headers\fR
Remove the mail headers from the text of the e-mail before adding the newly
created note to the notesfile.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\^\-title\fR=\fITITLE\fR
Set the new note's title.  If provided, this title will override any "Subject:"
header found in the e-mail.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\^\-verbose\fR
Print a confirmation message after creating the new note.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B nfmail
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfadmin\fR(1), \fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfpipe\fR(1),
\fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
