.TH NFPIPE 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
nfpipe \- insert data into a notesfile

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfpipe
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fIFILE\fR] \fINOTESFILE\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nfpipe
takes text from standard input (or from FILE if specified) and
use it as the text for a newly created note in NOTESFILE.

Generally speaking, \fBnfpipe\fR is intended to be used in one of two ways.
First, it can be used to insert text from a file into a notesfile; second, it
can be used along with a pipe to save output from another program into a
notesfile - hence the name "nfpipe".

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-anonymous\fR
If the notesfile allows anonymous notes, make the new note anonymous.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\^\-director\-msg\fR[=\fIMESSAGE\fR]
Set the new note's director message.  If the notesfile uses a backend which
allows per-note director messages as opposed to per-notesfile director
messages, you may provide the message you would like to be displayed for this
note.  (If the notesfile does not support this feature, the director message
flag will still be set, but the notesfile's director message will be used.)

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B nfpipe
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\^\-title\fR=\fITITLE\fR
Set the new note's title.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\^\-verbose\fR
Print a confirmation message after creating the new note.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B nfpipe
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfadmin\fR(1), \fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1),
\fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
