.TH NFPRINT 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
nfprint \- print formatted notes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nfprint
[\fIoptions\fR] \fINOTESFILE\fR [\fILIST\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nfprint
formats a notesfile and prints it to standard output in a format suitable for
hardcopy printing or other forms of offline viewing.

The parameter \fILIST\fR is a space-delimited list of note numbers; the
specified notes will be the ones printed.  List elements can contain ranges of
notes separated by hyphens.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\^\-cat\fR
Use the \fBcat\fR(1) program instead of the default \fBpr\fR(1) to format the
output.  If this option is specified, options \fB\-\^\-length\fR and
\fB\-\^\-page\-breaks\fR, which only pertain to \fBpr\fR(1), will be ignored if
provided.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\^\-director\fR
Include only notes with director messages.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B nfprint
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\^\-index\-only\fR
Print only an index page for the specified notes; do not print the actual notes
and responses.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\^\-length\fR=\fILENGTH\fR
Direct the \fBpr\fR(1) program to format output with \fILENGTH\fR lines per
page.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-nd\fR, \fB\-\^\-no\-director\fR
Include only notes without director messages.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\^\-page\-breaks\fR
Direct the \fBpr\fR(1) program to insert a page break after each note thread,
consisting of a note and all its responses.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B nfprint
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfadmin\fR(1), \fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1),
\fBnfpipe\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

\fBcat\fR(1), \fBpr\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
