.TH NFTIMESTAMP 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
nftimestamp \- check for new and updated notes

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nftimestamp
[\fIoptions\fR] \fINOTESFILE\fR...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B nftimestamp
updates your sequencer time in each of the specified notesfiles to the time
provided, or, by default, to right now.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-alternate\fR=\fINAME\fR
Use a named subsequencer.  Each subsequencer has its own independent set of
timestamps, and each can be used independently to sequence through the same
notesfiles.

This option was originally used for shared accounts, so multiple users could
track their sequencers individually.  Since most sites have moved away from
using shared accounts, this option is rarely used.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\^\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Read a list of notesfiles to update from the specified file, instead of
expecting such a list to be provided on the command line.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B nftimestamp
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\^\-time\fR=\fITIME\fR
Specify a particular date/time to set the sequencer time to.  Most common
formats for specifying dates and times are accepted by this option.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\^\-user\fR=\fIUSERNAME\fR
As root or the notes administrator, specify which user's sequencer times to
update.  For all intents and purposes, this option is identical to using
\fBsu\fR(1) to become the user, then running \fBnftimestamp\fR.

.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\^\-verbose\fR
Print a message for each updated notesfile.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B nftimestamp
and exit.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfadmin\fR(1), \fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1),
\fBnfpipe\fR(1), \fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnotes\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
