.TH NOTES 1 "August 2004" "Newts" "Newts Reference Manual"

.SH NAME
notes \- legacy client for the Newts notesfile system

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B notes
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fINOTESFILE\fR]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B notes
is a client for \fBNewts\fR, a notesfile, or community message board, system.
.B notes
is designed to look like and function like the program of the same name
distributed in the Notesfiles package from the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.

The
.B notes
program can be used to read and write notes, update options for those
notesfiles in which you are a director, save copies of notes as text files, and
various other functions.

If no notesfiles are specified, the
.B NFSEQ
environment variable will be checked to determine which notesfiles to view.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\^\-alternate\fR=\fINAME\fR
Use a named subsequencer.  Each subsequencer has its own independent set of
timestamps, and each can be used independently to sequence through the same
notesfiles.  If no other sequencer mode is specified, \fB\-\^\-sequencer\fR
will be assumed.

This option was originally used for shared accounts, so multiple users could
track their sequencers individually.  Since most sites have moved away from
using shared accounts, this option is rarely used.

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\^\-black\-threads\fR
When sequencing, for threads with basenotes that are blacklisted, skip all
responses in the thread as well as the basenote.  If the
\fB\-\^\-white\-basenotes\fR option is specified, this option does nothing.

.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\^\-seq\-own\-notes\fR
With this option set, the sequencer will "trip" on notes you write.  If your
note is the only new note in a notesfile, that notesfile will be entered and
your note displayed.

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\^\-file\fR=\fIFILE\fR
Read a list of notesfiles to view from the specified file, instead of expecting
such a list to be provided on the command line.  This option does not imply use
of the sequencer, but can be used with the sequencer.

.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\^\-no\-signature\fR
Do not include a signature in any notes or responses you compose, even if
a ~/.signature or similar file is located.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\^\-help\fR
Print a summary of usage and command-line options for
.B notes
and exit.

.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\^\-index\fR
Use the index sequencer.  This mode will skip notesfiles with no new notes, and
will open to the index screen of each notesfile with new notes, instead of
immediately opening to the first modified note.

.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\^\-skip\-own\-notes\fR
With this option set, the sequencer will ignore notes you write for the purpose
of determining whether a notesfile has been updated.  This is the default
behavior for the sequencer.

.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\^\-modern\fR
Use the "modern" display interface, featuring a more consistent user interface,
error messages, and prompts.  This is the default display mode.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\^\-no\-sequencer\fR
Do not use the sequencer.  This is the default mode.

.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\^\-time\fR=\fITIME\fR
Specify a particular date/time for the sequencer to use.  In this mode, all
notes written after the given time will be considered to be "new", and the
sequencer time will not be updated after you quit.  If no other sequencer mode
is specified, \fB\-\^\-sequencer\fR will be assumed.  Most common formats for
specifying dates and times are accepted by this option.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\^\-sequencer\fR
Use the sequencer.  The standard sequencer mode will skip notesfiles with no
new notes, and will open immediately to the first basenote in each notesfile
with modified or new material.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\^\-traditional\fR, \fB\-\^\-imsa\fR
Use the "traditional" display mode; this is the appearance that the Notesfile
system from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign used, replicated as
closely as possible while still fixing obvious display bugs.  This option
implies \fB\-\^\-seq\-own\-notes\fR.

.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\^\-user\fR=\fIUSERNAME\fR
As root, run the client as the specified user.  This means you'll use the
user's sequencer file, post as the user, etc; for all intents and purposes,
this option is identical to using \fBsu\fR(1) to become the user, then running
\fBnotes\fR(1), but is much easier to use when debugging.

.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\^\-white\-basenotes\fR
Cause basenotes to be exempt from blacklisting.  With this option specified,
all basenotes will be displayed.  If both \fB\-\^\-white\-basenotes\fR and
\fB\-\^\-black\-threads\fR are specified, only this option will apply.

.TP
\fB\-x\fR, \fB\-\^\-extended\fR
Use the extended sequencer.  This mode will enter each notesfile specified,
regardless of whether there are new notes.  If a given notesfile has no new
notes, it will open to the index screen.  If a notesfile does have new notes,
the notesfile will open to the first basenote with modified or new material.

.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\^\-no\-blacklist\fR
Do not use the blacklist; display all notes.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-debug\fR
Print debugging messages to standard error as the client runs; you will
probably want to save these messages to a file using redirection of standard
error.

.TP
\fB\-\^\-version\fR
Print version information for
.B notes
and exit.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B notes
is affected by the following environment variables.

.TP
\fBNFEDITOR\fR, \fBNFED\fR, \fBVISUAL\fR, \fBEDITOR\fR
These variables specify the user's preferred text editor; examples include
\fBemacs\fR(1), \fBvim\fR(1), and \fBnano\fR(1).

.TP
\fBNFMAILER\fR, \fBMAILER\fR
These variables specify the user's preferred mail user agent; examples include
\fBmutt\fR(1) and \fBpine(\fR1).  If you're a die-hard Emacs user, try setting
.B NFMAILER
to \fBemacs\fR.

.TP
\fBNFPAGER\fR, \fBPAGER\fR
These variables specify the user's preferred text pager; examples include
\fBless\fR(1) and \fBmore(\fR1).

.TP
\fBNFSEQ\fR
If no notesfiles are specified on the command line and this variable is set, it
will be used as the list of notesfiles to read.

.TP
\fBNFTALK\fR, \fBTALK\fR
These variables specify the user's preferred console-based user-to-user
communications program; examples include \fBytalk\fR(1) and \fBwrite\fR(1).

.TP
.B SHELL
This environment variable controls which shell
.B notes
will execute when asked to spawn a subshell.

.TP
.B TMPDIR
If this environment variable is set,
.B notes
will create all its temporary files in the specified directory.

.SH AUTHOR
.B Newts
was written and is maintained by Tyler Berry <tyler+newts@thoughtlocker.net>.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBautoseq\fR(1), \fBchecknotes\fR(1), \fBgetnote\fR(1), \fBmknf\fR(1),
\fBnfadmin\fR(1), \fBnfdump\fR(1), \fBnfload\fR(1), \fBnfmail\fR(1),
\fBnfpipe\fR(1), \fBnfprint\fR(1), \fBnfstats\fR(1), \fBnftimestamp\fR(1),
\fBrmnf\fR(1)

The full documentation for
.B Newts
is maintained as a Texinfo manual.  If the
.B info
and
.B Newts
programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.IP
.B info newts
.PP
should give you access to the complete manual.
