@node Reading
@chapter Reading and moving around in Notes
@cindex reading notes
@cindex Notes, reading notes in

After entering the Notes client, the most basic activity is to go
through the notesfile and read various notes.  This chapter will
explain how to read notes using the Notes client, starting with
selecting a note from the index, proceeding to how to move around in that
note and changing to different notes in the notesfile, and finally
explaining the various search capabilities of the Notes client.
Additionally, a brief introduction to access privileges will be
presented at the end of the chapter.

@menu
* Index screen::        The layout of the index screen.
* Scrolling::           Moving around the notesfile index screen.
* Opening a note::      Selecting a note from the index.
* Note layout::         The layout of the note display.
* Moving around::       Moving around a note and changing notes.
* Searching::           Search notes by author, title, or text.
@end menu

@node Index screen
@section Index screen layout
@cindex index, layout

A sample index screen is shown below; the description of the elements
on the screen follows.

@example
@cartouche
Newts discussion forum (=newts.forum)     12:00 pm  May 30, 2003

5/21/03     1 Welcome to =newts.forum               tyler
5/22        2 Discussion for new features        27 tyler
            3 Basenote for bug reports           49 tyler
5/26        5 Changing visual appearance?         4 john@@foo.com
5/29        6*New version released                  tyler

               **** End of Notes ****
@end cartouche
@end example

The top line of the index shows the notesfile's title, and unless
Notes was invoked in traditional mode, the name of the notesfile in
parentheses.  On the right side of the top line is the current time
and date; the time will be updated each time the screen is redrawn.

Each basenote is listed on its own line; from left to right, the
information for an individual basenote is:

@enumerate
@item
The date the basenote was composed.  If multiple basenotes were
written on the same date, the date will only be printed for the first
displayed note written on that date.

@item
The basenote number.  It is possible for basenote numbers to be
non-consecutive.  This can happen if an existing basenote is deleted,
for example.

@item
A symbol designating the basenote's status.  The most common symbol is
@samp{*}, which is printed for any basenote with a director message.
If a basenote has no special status, this space will be blank.

@item
The basenote's title.

@item
The number of responses to the basenote, if any.

@item
The author of the basenote.  If the author is a user from the same
system that the Newts system is installed on, the system will be omitted.
@end enumerate

If the list includes the most recent basenote, the message
@w{@samp{**** End of Notes ****}} will be shown after the list of
basenotes.

@node Scrolling
@section Scrolling on the index screen
@cindex index, scrolling

There are several ways to scroll up and down the index screen when
there are too many basenotes in a notesfile to display on the screen
at once.

The simplest way to scroll is with the arrow keys; the up and down
arrow keys will scroll the index screen up or down one basenote at a
time.

The @key{PGUP} and @key{PGDN} keys can be used to scroll up and down
one page at a time.  Each of these keys have several alternatives; the
@key{RET}, @key{SPC}, and @kbd{+} keys all scroll down a page, and the
@key{BS} and @kbd{-} keys scroll up a page.

The @key{HOME} and @kbd{=} keys both move to the beginning of the list
of basenotes, and the @key{END} and @kbd{*} keys both move to the end
of the list.  Since basenotes are sorted by the date that each note
was composed, the @key{HOME} and @kbd{=} keys will show the oldest
basenotes, and the @key{END} and @kbd{*} keys will show the most
recent basenotes.

The scrolling commands on the index screen:

@table @asis
@item Up arrow
Scroll up one note at a time.

@item Down arrow
Scroll down one note at a time.

@item @key{PGUP}
@itemx @key{BS}
@itemx @kbd{-}
Scroll up one screenful of notes.

@item @key{PGDN}
@itemx @key{RET}
@itemx @key{SPC}
@itemx @kbd{+}
Scroll down one screenful of notes.

@item @key{HOME}
@itemx @kbd{=}
Move to the beginning of the list of notes.

@item @key{END}
@itemx @kbd{*}
Move to the end of the list of notes.
@end table

@node Opening a note
@section Opening a note
@cindex opening a note
@cindex index, opening a note from

The primary use of the index screen is to select and open individual
basenotes to read.  To do this, you need to know the location of
basenote numbers on the index screen; for that information, refer to
@ref{Index screen}.

To open an individual basenote, simply type that basenote's number
while on the index screen; the number is displayed immediately to the
left of the basenote's title.  Since a basenote might have a number
with more than one digit, a prompt will be displayed on the screen as
you type the number, and you will need to type @key{RET} after
entering the number.

@node Note layout
@section Note layout
@cindex note layout

A sample note in the ``modern'' display style is shown below; the
description of the elements on the screen follows.

@example
@cartouche
Note 1                Newts discussion forum            3 responses
Tyler Berry (tyler)  Welcome to =newts.forum 10:00 am  May 30, 2003


This is a sample note which is being used to demonstrate the layout
that the Notes program uses to display basenotes and responses.

I hope you've enjoyed this example.

                                                -- Next response --
@end cartouche
@end example

The top line always shows which basenote you're currently reading, the
title of the current notesfile, and the number of responses to the
current basenote (and which response you're currently viewing, if
applicable).  There may be no responses; in that case, the rightmost
field will be blank.

The second line always contains the author of the note, with the
author's username in parentheses, followed by the title of the note,
followed by the date and time the note was composed.

A note with a director message will have that message displayed in the
center of the third line, underneath the note title.

Several indicators can appear on the third line underneath the
author's name.  If a basenote was written by a person without
permission to read the notesfile, a message will be displayed
indicating that the note was ``write only''.  Also, if the note was
composed by a user at a different site, that site will be indicated
beneath the author field.

At the bottom of the screen, a message will be displayed (in reverse
video if possible) indicating what action will be taken if the
@key{SPC} key is pressed.  This can be to view more pages of the
current note, to read the next response or basenote, or to return to
the index.  If there are more pages of the current note to display,
there will also be an indicator showing what percentage of the note
has been shown.

@node Moving around
@section Moving around a note and changing notes
@cindex moving around a note

A variety of different types of navigation are possible while viewing
individual notes.

First of all, when a given note has too much text to display on the
screen at once, the arrow keys and @key{PGUP} and @key{PGDN} can be
used to scroll inside the current note; these keys will not change
notes.

The @key{SPC} key is special.  It will go to the next page of the
current note if there are more pages to view.  Failing that, it will
move to the next response to the current note.  If there are no more
responses (or you are viewing the last response to a basenote), it
will move to the next basenote in the notesfile.  Finally, if you are
already viewing the last basenote in the notesfile, it will return you
to the notesfile index.  Unless you are using the traditional display
mode, the current behavior of the @key{SPC} key will be displayed at
the bottom of the screen.

Similarly, the @key{BS} and @kbd{-} keys will move to the previous
page.  If there is no previous page, they will change to the previous
response.  If you are viewing a basenote, they will change to the
previous basenote.  If you are viewing the first basenote in a
notesfile, and you are not using traditional mode, they will return
you to the index.

The @kbd{+} and @kbd{;} keys are identical, and will both advance to
the next response, basenote, or return to the index.  In other words,
they are exactly like @key{SPC} except that they will not scroll
forward in the current note.

The @kbd{*} key will move to the last response to the current
basenote, and the @kbd{=} key will return to the basenote.

The @kbd{i} key will return directly to the notesfile index.

Finally, you can also type the numbers from 1 to 9; each of these keys
will skip that number of responses forward, but not past the last
response.  This can be useful for moving quickly through a long thread
of responses.

@node Searching
@section Searching
@cindex searching

Notes provides several different ways to search through the notes in a
notesfile; each of these search methods is usable both from the index
and while viewing notes.

@menu
* Author search::   Looking for specific authors.
* Title search::    Finding notes with specified titles.
* Text search::     Searching through the text off all the notes in a
                      notesfile.
@end menu

@node Author search
@subsection Author search
@cindex author search
@cindex searching for an author

Searching for an author is performed using the @kbd{a} and @kbd{A}
keys, both of which will work on both the notesfile index screen and
while viewing notes.

The @kbd{a} key will prompt you for an author name to search for, and
will find the next note or response written by that author.

Author search proceeds from most recent basenote to least recent, and
from least recent response to most recent.  In order words, the most
recent basenote will be checked first, followed by the first response
to that basenote, and so on; if the author is not found in the most
recent basenote, the second most recent will be scanned.  If you are
viewing a note when you use the @kbd{a} command, the scan will proceed
from your current position in the notesfile.

If you have already searched for an author with the @kbd{a} key, you
can use the @kbd{A} key to repeat the most recent search.  If there
was no previous search, then the @kbd{A} key will act indentically to
@kbd{a}.

Author search is not case sensitive.

@node Title search
@subsection Title search
@cindex title search
@cindex searching for a title

You can search for a particular basenote by title using the @kbd{x}
and @kbd{X} keys.  As with author search, both of these commands work
from both the notesfile index screen and while viewing notes and
responses.

The @kbd{x} key will always prompt for a new title to search for, and
will find the most recent basenote containing the string you entered
in its title.  If you are viewing a note when you use the @kbd{x} key,
only notes with a basenote older than the currect note will be found.

The @kbd{X} key will repeat a previous title search, or prompt for a
title string if no search has been made.

Title search is not case sensitive.

@node Text search
@subsection Text search
@cindex text search
@cindex searching for text

In addition to the author search and text search capabilities which
were provided by Notesfiles 1.7 by Essick and Kolstad, Newts has the
ability to search the text of notes and responses for specific words
or phrases.

Similar to author and title search, text search is activated by the
@kbd{/} and @kbd{\} keys, and works from the notesfile index and while
viewing a note.

The @kbd{/} key prompts for a new text string to search for.  Text
search moves through notes in the same pattern as author search
(@pxref{Author search}); recent basenotes to old basenotes and old
responses to new responses.  If you are viewing a note when you use
text search to search for a new string, the current note will be
searched first.

When a match is found, it will be highlighted on the screen and the
note will automatically scroll down so that the text will be visible.
All copies of the text in the note will be highlighted, whether they
are currently visible or not.

Similar to the @kbd{A} and @kbd{X} keys, the @kbd{\} key can be used
to repeat a previous search.  If there are additional instances of the
search text on the current note, they will be displayed before the
next note in sequence is searched.

Like author search and title search, text search is not case
sensitive.
