@node Notes sequencer
@chapter The Notes sequencer
@cindex correcting mistakes

Perhaps the most useful feature provided by Notes is the sequencer,
which allows each user to view only notes which have been added since
the last time they read through each notesfile.

@menu
* Sequencer initialization::   Setting up for your first `seq'.
* Invoking the sequencer::     Starting Notes in sequencer mode.
* Viewing updated notes::      Reading new notes and responses.
* Sequencer options::          Affecting which notes are displayed.
@end menu

@node Sequencer initialization
@section Initializing the sequencer
@cindex sequencer, initializating
@cindex initializing the sequencer

The sequencer works by tracking the most recent time you looked
through a particular notesfile.  In order to set up the sequencer to
be used the first time, you'll need to record the time for each of the
notesfiles you want to be able to use the sequencer with.

The easiest way to do this is with the @command{nftimestamp}
(@pxref{Invoking nftimestamp}) command, without any options:

@example
@samp{nftimestamp @var{notesfile}...}
@end example

There are other ways to initialize the sequencer (for example, by
reading through the notesfile once using @command{notes -s} or
@command{autoseq}, but using @command{nftimestamp} is the simplest.

@node Invoking the sequencer
@section Invoking the sequencer
@cindex sequencer, invoking

There are several similar but subtly different modes that the
sequencer can run in.  Each mode is invoked using a command-line
option when you start Notes.

@table @samp
@item -a @var{seq}
@itemx --alternate=@var{seq}
Use a named subsequencer.  Each subsequencer has its own independent
set of timestamps, and each can be used independently to sequence
through the same notesfiles.  If no other sequencer mode is specified,
@samp{--sequencer} will be assumed.

This option was originally used for shared accounts, so multiple users
could track their sequencers individually.  Since most sites have
moved away from allowing shared accounts, this option is rarely used.

@item -i
@itemx --index
Use the index sequencer.  This mode will skip notesfiles with no new
notes, and will open to the index page of each notesfile with new
notes, instead of immediately opening to the first modified note.

@item -n
@itemx --no-sequencer
Do not use the sequencer.  This is the default mode.

@item -o @var{date}
@itemx --date=@var{date}
Specify a particular date/time for the sequencer to use.  In this
mode, all notes written after the given time will be considered to be
``new'', and the sequencer time will not be updated after you quit.
If no other sequencer mode is specified, @samp{-s} will be assumed.

@item -s
@itemx --sequencer
Use the sequencer.  The standard sequencer mode will skip notesfiles
with no new notes, and will open immediately to the first basenote in
each notesfile with modified or new material.

@item -x
@itemx --extended
Use the extended sequencer.  This mode will enter each notesfile
specifed, regardless of whether there are new notes.  If a given
notesfile has no new notes, it will open to the index page.  If a
notesfile does have new notes, the notesfile will open to the first
basenote with modified or new material.
@end table

@node Viewing updated notes
@section Viewing updated notes
@cindex sequencer, commands
@cindex sequencer, moving around
@cindex viewing new notes and responses

While you are viewing notesfiles using the sequencer, there are
several additional commands which are useful for changing notes.

The @kbd{j} key will move to the next updated basenote or response,
and the @kbd{J} key will move to the next updated note, skipping any
further responses to the current note.

The @kbd{l} and @kbd{L} keys work identically to the @kbd{j} and
@kbd{J} keys, respectively, but in addition will move to the next
notesfile specified on the command line with new or updated notes, if
any.  (@kbd{l} and @kbd{L} are like pressing @kbd{j} or @kbd{J}
followed by @kbd{q} if there were no further notes.)

The @kbd{g} key works like a combination of @key{SPC} and @kbd{l}.  If
the current note has additional pages, @kbd{g} will go to the next
page.  Otherwise, it behaves exactly like @kbd{l}.

Finally, there are two ways to leave the Notes program without
updating the sequencer.  The @kbd{Q} and @kbd{K} keys will leave the
current notesfile without updating its sequencer timestamp; @kbd{C-d}
will exit the entire Notes program without updating any further
timestamps.

@node Sequencer options
@section Sequencer-related options
@cindex sequencer, options

A pair of options controls whether the sequencer will trigger if the
only new notes in a particular notesfile since the last time you
viewed it were written by you.

@table @samp
@item -e
@itemx --seq-own-notes
With this option set, the sequencer will ``trip'' on notes you write.
If your note is the only new note in a notesfile, that notesfile will
be entered and your note displayed.

@item -k
@itemx --skip-own-notes
With this option set, the sequencer will ignore notes you write for
the purpose of determining whether a notesfile has been updated.  This
is the default behavior for the sequencer.
@end table
