@node Writing
@chapter Writing notes and responses
@cindex writing notes and responses
@cindex composing notes and responses
@cindex notes, writing

Having mastered navigation to and around notes in the notesfile
system, the next activity to master is contributing to the discussion
by posting new topics for discussion and responding to posts that
others have made.

@menu
* Writing basenotes::         Adding a new basenote to a notesfile.
* Writing responses::         Responding to an existing note.
* Choosing an editor::        Specifying an editor for Notes to use.
* Restrictions on writing::   Access permissions for writing.
@end menu

@node Writing basenotes
@section Writing basenotes
@cindex writing basenotes
@cindex composing basenotes
@cindex basenotes, writing

Adding a new basenote to a notesfile is easy: while viewing the
notesfile index screen, the @kbd{w} key will open an editor for you to
edit the text of your new note.  After you are finished editing the
note, save and quit in the normal manner for your editor.

If the notesfile you are adding a new note to allows anonymous notes,
you will be asked if you want your new note to be anonymous.  If you
are a director in the notesfile, you will then be given the option to
add a director message to the note.  Finally, you will be prompted for
a title for the new basenote.

After the note is completed, it will automatically be displayed on the
screen.

@node Writing responses
@section Writing responses
@cindex writing responses
@cindex composing responses
@cindex responses, writing

Creating a new response to an existing note is very similar to
creating a new basenote.  While viewing the note you'd like to respond
to, press @kbd{w} to create a new response, or @kbd{W} to include the
text of the current note or response as a quote in your new note.

An editor will be launched for you to type in the text of your
response.  After you've finished editing the response, save and quit
your editor.

If the notesfile you are adding the response to allows anonymous
notes, you will be asked if you want your response to be anonymous.
If you are a director in the notesfile, you will be given the option
to add a director message to the response.

As with a new basenote, your finished response will be automatically
opened after it is completed.

@node Choosing an editor
@section Choosing an editor
@cindex choosing an editor

Notes will honor the various common environment variables used to
specify a preferred editor --- namely, @env{VISUAL} and @env{EDITOR}.
If you would prefer to specify a different editor to use only in
Notes, you can instead use the environment variable @env{NFEDITOR}.
In the interest of backwards compatibility, @env{NFED}, used by UIUC
Notesfiles, is also recognized.

@node Restrictions on writing
@section Access restrictions for writing notes
@cindex access restrictions on writing and responding

In some cases, you may be allowed to read the notes in a notesfile,
but not to write new notes; in other cases, you may be able to read
and respond, but not post new basenotes.

These options can be used to create notesfiles for announcements,
where only approved personnel can post new notes and other users are
restricted either to reading or reading and commenting on existing
items.

Access restrictions can also be imposed on individuals at the
discretion of notesfile directors.
